## Nginx Performance Optimization : Worker Processes and Worker Connections

### Worker Processes

The **worker_processes directive** tells Nginx how many worker processes it should spawn. The optimal value depends on many factors including (but not limited to) the number of CPU cores available, the number of hard disk drives (HDDs) or solid-state drives (SSDs) that store data, and load pattern.

- NGINX default worker process value is 1, which means that Nginx will spawn one worker process.
- Worker can be set to auto, which means that Nginx will spawn one worker process per CPU core.
- Worker processes can be defined via directives `worker_processes` and `worker_cpu_affinity`
- The directive is responsible for letting the virtual server know how many worker processes it should spawn once it has become bound to the proper IP address and port(s)
- It common practice to run 1 worker process per CPU core. This is because Nginx is event-based and each worker process can handle thousands of concurrent connections. The number of connections is limited by the number of file descriptors (FDs) that the system can allocate. The default limit is 1024. You can increase this limit by setting the `worker_connections` directive in the `events` block.

- worker process belong to the `Global context`, which means that it is not inherited by any other context. It is defined in the `main` context`


### Worker Connections 

The **worker_connections directive** te`ls Nginx how many connections each worker process can handle simultaneously. The optimal value depends on many factors including (but not limited to) the number of CPU cores available, the number of hard disk drives (HDDs) or solid-state drives (SSDs) that store data, and load pattern.

- Worker connection: This directive tells our worker processes how many people can simultaneously be served by nginx.
- This is a child of `Event Context`
- The default value is 768, which is not enough for high-load servers. You can increase this value to 1024 or 2048.
    However, considering that every browser opens at least 2 connections/server, this number can half.

- User can check our core's limitations by ussuing a ulimit command:
    - `ulimit -n` # check the number of open files
    - `ulimit -u` # check the number of processes

  
- The `worker_connections` directive is responsible for letting the virtual server know how many connections each worker process can handle simultaneously.

- worker_connections 1000 - This means, NGINX can server 1000 clients/second at a time.


```bash
# check for worker processes
ps -aux --forest | grep nginx

# define the number of worker processes
sudo vi /etc/nginx/nginx.conf

# check the number of worker processes
cat /etc/nginx/nginx.conf | grep worker_processes

# check for number of cpu cores in the system
nproc
lscpu | grep -i cpu

# add the following line to the nginx.conf file
worker_processes 4;
```

```bash
user www-data;
#worker_processes 4;
worker_processes auto;
events {
    worker_connections 1024;
    # multi_accept on;
}

http {

    include /etc/nginx/mime.types;
      
    server 
    {
        listen 80;
        server_name  192.168.200.10;
        root /var/www/siteweb-agence-voyage;
        index index.html index.php;
        
        location / {
            try_files $uri $uri/ =404;
        }
    
        # logs folder
        location /logs {
            access_log /var/log/nginx/access.log;
            return 200 "Logs are published !!!"; 
        }

        # Dynamic requests
        location ~ \.php$ {
            include fastcgi.conf;
            fastcgi_pass unix:/var/run/php/php7.4-fpm.sock;
            #fastcgi_param SCRIPT_FILENAME $document_root$fastcgi_script_name;
            #include fastcgi_params;
        }
    }
}

```

```bash


# cd into the nginx folder
cd /etc/nginx/

# test the configuration file
sudo nginx -t

# reload nginx
sudo nginx -s reload

# check for worker processes
ps -aux --forest | grep nginx
```



Now let's see how we can manage the number of `connections`that each worker process can handle simultaneously. The `worker_connections` directive is responsible for letting the virtual server know how many connections each worker process can handle simultaneously. The default value is 768, which is not enough for high-load servers. You can increase this value to 1024 or 2048. However, considering that every browser opens at least 2 connections/server, this number can half.

```bash
# check for the number of connections that each worker process can handle
ulimit -n

# define the number of connections that each worker process can handle
sudo vi /etc/nginx/nginx.conf

# add the following line to the nginx.conf file
worker_connections 1000;
```

