## Performance Optimization : Buffer

`Buffer` is another aspect to manage the NGINX Performance Optimization. 

- Buffer: A buffer is a temporary storage area that holds data while it is being transferred from one place to another. It is a portion of memory used to store data temporarily. It is a data area shared by hardware devices or program processes that operate at different speeds or with different sets of priorities. A buffer provides a holding area for data so that it can be manipulated or processed. Because buffers are faster than the processes accessing it, it is advantageous to use buffers in most cases. However, buffers are created for a temporary purpose and are subject to change.

- If the buffer is too small, the server will have to write data to the disk more often, which will slow down the performance. If the buffer is too large, the server will waste memory resources.

- NGINX uses buffers for request and response processing. The size of the buffers is determined by the amount of memory available on the server. The buffers are allocated only when they are needed. The buffers are freed when the request or response is fully processed.

- NGINX uses two types of buffers:
    - `Memory buffers`: Memory buffers are used for request processing. They are allocated in the memory and are freed when the request is fully processed.
    - `Temporary files`: Temporary files are used for response processing. They are allocated on the disk and are deleted when the response is fully processed.


### Buffer Directives
These are the directives that can be used to manage the buffer:
- `client_body_buffer_size`: This directive sets the maximum size of the buffer that will hold the data from the client request body. The default value is 8KB. If the request body is larger than the buffer, the entire request body or only its part is written to a temporary file.
- `client_header_buffer_size`: This directive sets the maximum size of the buffer that will hold the client request header. The default value is 1KB. If the request header is larger than the buffer, the entire request header or only its part is written to a temporary file.
- `client_max_body_size`: This directive sets the maximum size of the client request body. The default value is 1MB. If the request body is larger than the value specified in this directive, the 413 (Request Entity Too Large) error is returned to the client.
- `large_client_header_buffers`: This directive sets the maximum number and size of buffers that will hold the client request header. The default value is 4 buffers of 8KB each. If the request header is larger than the value specified in this directive, the 413 (Request Entity Too Large) error is returned to the client.
- `Timeouts`: These directives set the amount of time that NGINX will wait for the client to send a request header or body, or the server to send a response header or body. The default value is 60 seconds. If the client or server does not transmit any data within the specified time, the 408 (Request Time-out) error is returned to the client.
- `client_body_timeout`: This directive sets the amount of time that NGINX will wait for the client to send the request body. The default value is 60 seconds.
- `client_header_timeout`: This directive sets the amount of time that NGINX will wait for the client to send the request header. The default value is 60 seconds.
- `keepalive_timeout`: This directive sets the amount of time that NGINX will wait for the next request from the client. The default value is 75 seconds.
- `send_timeout`: This directive sets the amount of time that NGINX will wait for the response header to be sent to the client. The default value is 60 seconds.
- `Gzip compression`: This directive enables or disables the compression of responses. The default value is off. If the compression is enabled, the response is compressed before it is sent to the client. The compression reduces the size of the response and speeds up the transfer of data.
- `Gzip` can reduce the amount of network transfer Nginx deals with. However, be carefull increasing the `gzip_comp_level` too much, as it can increase the CPU load on the server (the server will be wasting cpu cycles)
```bash
gzip on;
gzip_comp_level 2;
gzip_min_length 1000;
gzip_types text/plain application/xml text/css application/javascript;
```
  - `gzip on`: Enables or disables the compression of responses. The default value is off.
  - `gzip_comp_level`: Sets the compression level. The value can be between 1 and 9. The default value is 1`
  - `gzip_min_length`: Sets the minimum length of a response that will be compressed. The default value is 20 bytes.
  - `gzip_types`: Sets the MIME types of responses that will be compressed. The default value is text/html.

- `Static Files Caching`: This directive enables or disables the caching of static files. The default value is off. If the caching is enabled, the response is cached in the memory or on the disk before it is sent to the client. The caching reduces the number of requests that the server has to process.
    - It is possible to set expire headers for files that don't change often and are server regularly. This will reduce the number of requests to the
    server. However, if the files change often, it is better to disable the caching. This can be achieved by setting the `expires` directive to `off`. The default value is `off`. 
    
This directive can be added to the `location` block that matches the files that should not be cached. The following example shows how to set the expire headers for images, CSS files, and JavaScript files:

```bash
# Cache static files for 365 days - 1 year
location ~* \.(jpg|jpeg|png|gif|ico|css|js)$ {
    expires 365d;
}
```


Let's see the example of the `Buffer` in the `nginx.conf` file:
```bash
# Path: nginx-web-server/nginx-training/11. Performance Optimization.md
```

```bash
user www-data;
worker_processes auto;
events {
    worker_connections 1024;
    # multi_accept on;
}

http {

    include /etc/nginx/mime.types;

    # Buffer size for POST submission
    client_body_buffer_size 10K;
    client_max_body_size 8m;

    # Buffer size for headers
    client_header_buffer_size 1k;

    # Max time to receive client headers/body
    client_body_timeout 12; 30; 
    client_header_timeout 12; 45;

    # Max time to keep a connection open for
    keepalive_timeout 15;

    # Max time for the client accept/receive a response
    send_timeout 10;

    # Skip buffering for static files
    sendfile on;

    # Optimize sendfile packets
    tcp_nopush on;

    # Cache static files for 365 days - 1 year
    location ~* \.(jpg|jpeg|png|gif|ico|css|js)$ {
        expires 365d;
    }

      
    server 
    {
        listen 80;
        server_name  192.168.200.10;
        root /var/www/siteweb-agence-voyage;
        index index.html index.php;
        
        location / {
            try_files $uri $uri/ =404;
        }
    
        # logs folder
        location /logs {
            access_log /var/log/nginx/access.log;
            return 200 "Logs are published !!!"; 
        }

        # Dynamic requests
        location ~ \.php$ {
            include fastcgi.conf;
            fastcgi_pass unix:/var/run/php/php7.4-fpm.sock;
            #fastcgi_param SCRIPT_FILENAME $document_root$fastcgi_script_name;
            #include fastcgi_params;
        }
    }
}
