## NGIX Configuration terminology

`NGINX` uses a hierarchical structure for configuration. The top-level structure is called a `context`. Each context can contain other contexts, and each context can contain directives that define configuration parameters. The following diagram shows the hierarchy of contexts and directives.
- NGINX configuration files is that it appears to be organized in a tree-like structure, defined by set of brackets `{}`.
```bash
# Exemple of configuration file
events {
    worker_connections  1024;
    }

http {
    server {
        listen 80;
        server_name example.com;
        location / {
            root /var/www/example.com;
        }
    }
    server {
        listen 80;
        server_name example.org;
        location / {
            root /var/www/example.org;
        }
    }
    ssl_certificate     /etc/ssl/certs/nginx-selfsigned.crt;
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/ssl/private/nginx-selfsigned.key;
    server {
        listen 443 ssl;
        server_name example.com;
        location / {
            root /var/www/example.com;
        }
    }
    # error pages for site - 404
    error_page 404 /404.html;
    location = /404.html {
        root /usr/share/nginx/html;
        internal;
    }
    # error pages for server - 500 502 503 504
    error_page 500 502 503 504 /50x.html;
    location = /50x.html {
        root /usr/share/nginx/html;
        internal;
    }
}
```


To get the content of the configuration file:
```bash
cat /etc/nginx/nginx.conf 
```

###  The context
Each bracketed block is called a `context`. Each context can contain other contexts, and each context can contain directives that define configuration parameters. The following diagram shows the hierarchy of contexts and directives.

- `Main context ` - the top-level context, which is inherited by all other contexts. The `main`or `global` context is the only context that is not inherited. It contains directives that apply to the entire configuration file. Not contained within any context blocks.
- Some common details that are configured in the main context are:
    - `user` - the user who will run the NGINX worker processes. The default is `nobody`.
    - `worker_processes` - the number of worker processes that NGINX will use. The default is `auto`, which detects the number of CPU cores available on the system and assigns one worker process to each core.
    - `error_log` - the location of the error log file. The default is `/var/log/nginx/error.log`.
    - `pid` - the location of the process ID file. The default is `/var/run/nginx.pid`.

- `Events context` - contains directives that affect connection processing. It is defined in the `main` context. The `events` context is inherited by the `http` context and the `stream` context. The `events` context is used to specify the maximum number of simultaneous connections that can be opened by a worker process.
  - `worker_connections` - the maximum number of simultaneous connections that can be opened by a worker process. The default is `512`.
  - `use` - specifies the event processing method. The default is `epoll` on Linux systems and `kqueue` on FreeBSD systems.
  - `multi_accept` - specifies whether each worker process should accept all new connections at a time. The default is `off`.
  - Nginx uses event-bases connections handling. It means that Nginx can handle thousands of concurrent connections with low memory footprint. Nginx uses one thread per CPU core. Each thread can handle thousands of concurrent connections. The number of connections is limited by the number of file descriptors (FDs) that the system can allocate. The default limit is 1024. You can increase this limit by setting the `worker_connections` directive in the `events` block.
  - Nginx uses event-bases connection model, so the directives defined within this context determine how worker processes should handle connections. The `worker_connections` directive specifies the maximum number of simultaneous connections that can be opened by a worker process. The `use` directive specifies the event processing method. The `multi_accept` directive specifies whether each worker process should accept all new connections at a time.

- `HTTP Context`: This context will contain all the directives and other contexts necessaryy to define how the program will handle HTTP or HTTPS connections
  - Http context is sibling of events context, so they should be listed side by side in the configuration file, rather than nested.

- `server context` - defines the parameters for processing requests that come to a particular virtual server. The `server` context is defined in the `http` context. 
    - User can have multiple server blocks in the configuration file. Each server block can have its own `listen` and `server_name` directives. 
        - `listen` - defines the IP address and port number on which the server will accept requests. The `listen` directive can be specified multiple times to listen on multiple ports. The default is `80`.
        - `server_name` - defines the domain name or IP address that will be used to process requests. The `server_name` directive can be specified multiple times to define multiple domain names or IP addresses. The default is `localhost`.

- `location context`: Location blockss live within server contexts and, unlike server blocks, can be nested inside one another
  This can be useful for creating more general location context to catch a certain subset of traffic, and the further processing it bases on more specific criteria with aditional location blocks (contexts inside)


- `Upstream context` - defines a group of servers that will process requests. It use to difine and configure **upstream servers**. Load balancing is a technique that allows distributing the workload across multiple servers. It can be used to improve the performance and reliability of a web application. The `upstream` context is defined in the `http` context. The `http` context is inherited by the `stream` context.


- `Mail context` - defines the parameters for processing requests that come to a particular virtual server. The `mail` context is defined in the `http` context. The `http` context is inherited by the `stream` context.
- 

- `map` - defines a mapping between values and variables. The `map` context is defined in the `http` context. The `http` context is inherited by the `stream` context.


 - `types` - defines MIME types and the file name extensions associated with them. The `types` context is defined in the `http` context. The `http` context is inherited by the `stream` context.

- `include` - includes one or more configuration files. The `include` context is defined in the `http` context. The `http` context is inherited by the `stream` context.
 
### The directive - specify the rules (value) define in the context
A `directive` is a name and parameters separated by spaces and ends with a semicolon (;). Directives are used to specify the rules that define separate elements of the configuration. For example, the `worker_connections` directive in the `events` context specifies the maximum number of simultaneous connections that can be opened by a worker process.

