
## Location Context Nginx

Location blocks live within server contexts and, unlike server blocks, can be nested inside one another. The location context is used to define how NGINX should process requests for different URIs. The location context is defined in the server context.

```bash
# syntax
location optional_modifier location_match {
    . . .
}
#location [ = | ~ | ~* | ^~ ] uri { ... }
```

- `Location Match`: define what Nginx should check the request URI against. It can be a string or a regular expression. If the request URI matches the location match, the directives inside the location block will be applied.
- The existence or non existence of the modifier, affects the way Nginx will match the request URI against the location match.
- The modifies below will coause the associated location block to be interpreted as follows:
    - (none) : If no modifier is used, the location is interpreted as a prefix match. Nginx will check if the request URI starts with the location match.
    - `=`: If an equal sign is used, the location is interpreted as a string. Nginx will check if the request URI is exactly equal to the location match.
    - `~`: If a tilde is used, the location is interpreted as a case-sensitive regular expression. Nginx will check if the request URI matches the regular expression.
    - `~*`: If a tilde and an asterisk are used, the location is interpreted as a case-insensitive regular expression. Nginx will check if the request URI matches the regular expression.
    - `^~`: If a carat and a tilde are used, the location is interpreted as a string. Nginx will check if the request URI starts with the location match.

### Base config file
```bash
events {
}

http {

    include /etc/nginx/mime.types;
      
    server 
    {
        listen 80;
        server_name 192.168.200.10;
        root /var/www/siteweb-agence-voyage;
        index index.html;
    }
}
```

### Location Context
```bash
events {
}

http {

    include /etc/nginx/mime.types;
      
    server 
    {
        listen 80;
        server_name 192.168.200.10;
        root /var/www/siteweb-agence-voyage;
        index index.html;
        location /contact {
            return 200 "Contact page - You are in a defined custom location";
        }
        location ~* /contact {
            return 200 "Contact page - You are in a defined REGEX Case sensitive MATCH !!!";
        }
    }
}
```
```bash
# copy the the config file from home to etc/nginx/nginx.conf
sudo cp nginx.conf /etc/nginx/nginx.conf

# open the nginx.conf file
cat /etc/nginx/nginx.conf

# restart nginx
sudo systemctl restart nginx

# reload nginx
sudo nginx -s reload

# test the configuration file
sudo nginx -t



# open the browser and type the ip address of the server
curl -I http://192.168.200.10/styles.css