## Variables in nginx

Nginx supports variables, which can be used to add dynamic elements to the configuration. Variables are indicated by a dollar sign followed by the name of the variable. For example, the `$uri` variable contains the current request URI.

- `$args`: The arguments in the request URI.
- `$document_root`: The root directory of the request.
- `$host`: The hostname from the request line.
- `$hostname`: The server name matching a request.
- `$http_user_agent`: The user agent in the request header.
- `$remote_addr`: The IP address of the client.
- `$remote_port`: The port number of the client.
- `$request`: The full request line.
- `$scheme`: The HTTP method.
- `$uri`: The current request URI.
- `$request_uri`: The full request URI.
- `$query_string`: The query string in the request URI.
- `$body_bytes_sent`: The number of bytes sent to a client.
- `$bytes_received`: The number of bytes received from a client.
- `$connection`: The connection serial number.
- `$connection_requests`: The number of requests made through a connection.
- `$date_local`: The current time in the local time zone.
- `nginx_version`: The version of NGINX.
- `$msec`: The current time in seconds with milliseconds.
- `$pid`: The process ID of the NGINX worker process.
- `$pipe`: The pipe status.
- `$request_completion`: The status of a request.
- `$request_id`: The unique request identifier.
- `$request_length`: The length of the request.

Variables can be used in any directive that accepts a string as a value. For example, the `root` directive can use a variable to specify the root directory for a virtual host:

```bash
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name example.com;
    root /var/www/$host;
    index index.html;
}
```